and if he kills his man he is
acquitted, provided he can bring witnesses to swear that he was
obliged to fight."

"Since fighting with the fist may cause death, I wonder it is
allowed."

"It is only allowed for a wager. If the combatants do not put one or
more pieces of money on the ground before the fight, and there is a
death, the man is hanged."

"What laws! What manners!"

In such ways I learnt much concerning the manner and customs of this
proud nation, at once so great and so little.

The noble lord came to dinner, and I treated him in a manner to make
him wish to come again. Although there were only the two of us, the
meal lasted a long time, as I was anxious for additional information
on what I had heard in the morning, especially on the Betting Club.
The worthy Pembroke advised me not to have anything to do with it,
unless I made up my mind to keep perfect silence for four or five
weeks.

"But supposing they ask me a question?"

"Evade it."

"Certainly, if I am not in a position to give my opinion; but if I
have an opinion, the powers of Satan could not shut my mouth."

"All the worse for you."

"Are the members knaves?"

"Certainly not. They are noblemen, philosophers, and epicures; but
they are pitiless where a bet is concerned."

"Is the club treasury rich?"

"Far from it; they are all ashamed to pay a fine, and prefer to bet.
Who will introduce you?"

"Martinelli."

"Quite so; through Lord Spencer, who is a member. I would not become
one."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't like argument."

"My taste runs the other way, so I shall try to get in."

"By the way, M. de Seingalt, do you know that you are a very
extraordinary man?"

"For what reason, my lord?"

"You shut yourself up for a whole month with a woman who spent
fourteen months in London without anybody making her acquaintance or
even discovering her nationality. All the amateurs have taken a
lively interest in the affair."

"How did you find out that she spent fourteen months in London?"

"Because several persons saw her in the house of a worthy widow where
she spent the first month. She would never have anything to say to
any advances, but the bill in your window worked wonders."

"Yes, and all the worse for me, for I feel as if I could never love
another woman."

"Oh, that's childish indeed! You will love another woman in a week-
nay, perhaps to-morrow, if you will come and dine with me at my
country house. A perfect French beauty has asked me to dine with
her. I have told some of my friends who are fond of gaming."

"Does the charming Frenchwoman like gaming?"

"No, but her husband does."

"What's his name?"

"He calls himself Count de Castelbajac."

"Ah! Castelbajac?"

"Yes."

"He is a Gascon?"

"Yes."

"Tall, thin, and dark, and marked with the smallpox?

"Exactly! I am delighted to find you know him. You will agree with
me that his wife is very pretty?"

"I really can't say. I knew Castelbajac, as he calls himself, six
years ago, and I never heard he was married. I shall be delighted to
join you, however. I must warn you not to say anything if he 